Leading a Software Training Documentation Project with Project Management Methodology

A project I came up with at work that I ended up leading and completing was to create a training documentation guide for all sales department work procedures related to our software. Chapter one of the book mentioned what defines a project by the assignment having a clear start, end, result, and limited time frame. For my project this was a specific task I had set out with a plan for a specific result. This resulted in a clear start and end time based on the progress made through the assignment. There typically also needs to be a result or a question of "where are we going?" per chapter one. In my project the result of this project was designed to lead to less support tickets and less mistakes made regarding business practices by untrained sales representatives. In addition, this would serve as a reference for even seasoned employees to make sure if they are unsure they could use this guide to ensure proper procedure is completed and no ticket submitted or mistake is made. 

Chapter two talks about using "A little bit of everything" as far as your skills in order to complete the project in a way that works for all parties involved. In my background before working in IT, I have been a manager, a drum instructor for kids at a high school, a training and development specialist, and more. My experience with different industries allowed me in this project to communicate efficiently to create the best product. I spoke with the sales teams on their procedures, the sales manager about what procedures they would like to highlight, the IT manager to present the project, the accounting department to present how this can save money by reducing errors resulting in returns or refunds, and more. Using my communication skills first as they are key per the second chapter, I was able to make sure the documentation guide for procedures was well structured. As far as IT, I know end users sometimes struggle with overly technical terms so I made sure to translate the verbiage as needed to something an end user would understand while providing detailed screenshots. This means I had to plan out my guide to be organized well as these features should flow seamlessly from one section to the next. Organizational techniques are also discussed in chapter two. I could make this post huge but by going through each section but to summarize I went through every consideration in the preplanning for presenting the project, the work in the project, and the publication of the project. 

As far as methodology in this book I did follow the Needs or Demands > Project Initiation > Project Charter outline set in the third chapter. There was a business need for this strategic opportunity, which allowed me to use dynamic communication methods, and setting up a project management process to ensure top to bottom every area of the project was completed with consideration to the scope of the project and to satisfy the strategic opportunity laid out. 